they broke the law on the outside and
now behind bars they're doing it again
breaking the rules and fighting the
system looking for major contraband at
shanks
any drugs we think we're good right now
for one year National Geographic
followed the lives of inmates and
officers in the state of Ohio it's a
system bent on making inmates better
filled with convicted felons who might
be getting worse
ow my face this is a year with a hard
time
[Music]
9:00 a.m. and already today the Ross
Correctional Institution is on high
alert an officer is down in unit 4 a
punched in the face by an inmate knocked
out left cold on the floor officers
raced to the scene and now the attacker
an old school inmate named Buster
Johnson was headed to the hole to await
his fate we were with a piece around
street fighter pilots previous book but
back at the scene of the crime the
inmates have already rendered a verdict
he put his hands on that made admit no
David he had soon I will say he had to
go but it was that so far I think they
took that they were great search they
better than us or something better than
it could be gotta do attacking an
officer is something many inmates talk
about but rarely act on
lashing out means breaking a cardinal
rule of doing time never touch staff
members and the punishment is severe
behind bars
the line between control and chaos is
held in check by the rules but to some
rules are made to be broken and it's the
job of the system to catch the offenders
and dole out the punishment Ross
Correctional Institution houses twenty
six hundred inmates of all kinds a
potent mix of newcomers and old timers
low security inmates to threatening
gangs
all watching each other and being
watched
it's razor wire and concrete block a
fenced-in city of felons felons that
earned a prison sentence for breaking
the law felons that are doing hard time
and while most accept their faith some
continue to fight the system and each
other but you know we're talking me do
on some real they gonna teach you like
search for the field fighter I got to do
it I got to do
Dyan going home and oncology we pop up
when there's tension in the pot or New
York
everybody gets where they need to be so
it's time to rumble with time around you
let's do it for real you want to do it
for real these are the rule breakers
confrontational real endless defiant
just because these guys were
incarcerated for being a criminal in the
street doesn't stop when it gets in here
they're constantly working on being a
criminal
you guys have 24 hours a day 7 days a
week 365 days a year to outsmart us to
outwit us to get over on this planet
evil Rob sells some people sell dope
some people sell pills got guys that run
tickets you got guys that run stores
make needles make ink shoot tattoos some
of these dues they muscle be dead and do
it like that they just running around
and stealing it's on the run game all
other people yelling sign it all kind of
it's the only way to survive the CIO's
tennis and all the word we don't you buy
me and I'll give well you know I got
something over your white shirt take it
off I want to see your t-shirt terrific
the rule breakers are the biggest
challenge to the system the loud
minority
under constant watch these guys are
dangerous and it's our job keeping thumb
on keep some control of them know what
they're doing try to try to predict what
they're going to do next these guys are
always looking for an edge that week
Lincoln
white gold it's a cat-and-mouse game
because it's my job to follow the rules
and a lot of inmates will tell you it's
their job to break them at Ross the
challenges come daily and problems can
flare up at any moment then it's time to
respond this afternoon
emergency workers have been called to
unit 4 a on the heels of a vicious fight
weapons were involved and the assailant
is already in custody make sure you're
up easy
it's not the first time this inmate has
been involved in an attack and given his
history it probably won't be his last I
[Music]
ask that the lone wolf is a heartland
walk on believe me I've been walking
that when most of my life
McDaniel blacker has always chosen to
live by his own rules and lead a life of
crime that makes him a regular in prison
I've always been bad in closing I'm the
one that your parents have always warned
you about my parents didn't want
anything dude I turned 18 and yeah well
don't don't come around my type of deal
so I've really never had no kind of
cancer I've stuck out on my own what am
I supposed to do
you know I may not have to eat survive
he's a piece of work he's very
unpredictable he's volatile you could go
for months without having any problems
and then go completely nut ball and you
have two minutes
Blacker's in on a seven-year sentence
for aggravated robbery in 2004 armed
with a butcher's knife he robbed a
carry-out store in broad daylight
blacker threatened the clerk and fled
the scene with a bag full of cash
he broke the rules of society and behind
bars little has changed
coach us all tell me I mean if you tell
me I'm asking you on penis
I don't do it they like it we can only
creepy like math we like and act like a
conflict not ideal I kind of understand
that so there it is the only thing I've
learned how to do in here has become a
heartless piece
thrill me stand out from the crowd I
know you're not your typical prisoner
I'm me I'm a one-man army a one-man
wrecking crew rocker may live by his own
set of rules but now he has to face the
consequences for his actions
there were more than 1,200 inmate
assaults last year in the prison's of
Ohio those are the incidents that get
reported many inmate fights take place
out of sight and back rooms or behind
the cell door
what happens is they go in there they
fight you go wit come out like nothing
happen your honor me if somebody gets
beat up really bad then he'll get
cleaned up first then he'll come out
here go to his cell he'll lay low and
sweet he'll luck that is how it works
when it comes to attacks on officers
though inmates have nowhere to hide
there were over 900 incidents against
staff in Ohio prisons last year and
while most of them were minor every
assault is handled swiftly something
Buster Johnson has come to understand
he's entering his fifth day in
segregation after striking an officer
and knocking him out his contingent
hadn't so quickly unless most of heaven
knows as the spare moment thing my mind
is flip
[Music]
Buster Johnson has had sudden bursts of
violence in the past he shot a man in
1992 and served five years while out on
parole
Johnson stormed into a crowded bar after
his cousin had an altercation with
another man he pumped three 22 caliber
rounds into the body of the victim was
arrested and sentenced to 28 years for
attempted murder all over in a split
second a choice that cost Buster Johnson
his life in the free world when a cycle
that Johnson has just repeated the way
she was doing a routine search we did
surgery day really
we had a iron stolen it's a pot iron
that teammates used to iron her clothes
so we're shaking down cells looking for
the iron he was going to our belongings
to see what was told and whatnot you
know I had all my receipts
you know I'm noticing other things look
for other contraband at the time well I
was going about the third cell which is
and make Johnson cell and I started
looking at this TV which had numbers
scratched out of it and so I'm asking
about the TV see if it's a stolen TV or
what the deal was he becomes kind of
irate and argumentative so I ask him to
step out of the cell he wants keep
arguing I say it again with a louder
voice I say step out of the cell
he acts like he's going to comply and he
says okay then and looks down and starts
to go out of the cell it's only did I
turn around I fire his nose and he
dropped to the ground and you know I
looked at him and realized that harder
he and see blood screen on his nose
mouth and I Wow
I know I just turned around to a lazy
right and he went sleep
I never had any problems out of inmate
Johnson before that happened it's almost
like I didn't know and make Johnson even
though he was there
Johnson snapped again and now faces the
possibility of criminal charges for
assaulting an officer and with them more
time he's just one of the 2,600
convicted felons at Ross 2,600 men who
broke the rules of society each inmate
heard the guilty verdict
heard the judge issue a sentence that
eventually sent them here
while most quietly do their time for
some breaking the rules is a way of life
and with each violation comes
consequences
[Music]
the visitation will at the Ross
Correctional Institution the front line
between hard time and freedom there are
more than 20,000 visits a year
one of the few places where inmates can
hear the sound of children laugh talk
smile
and almost come here for the touch of a
loved one's hand some use this direct
contact with the outside world as an
opportunity
so on the other side of the wall every
motion is being watched every gesture
scrutinized you never know what it's
going to happen just have to be ready
I've seen heroin crack marijuana pills
not any kind oxycontin xanax is I've
seen to come out of babies diapers I've
seen it come out of grandmas brawl they
do it and I fetch it
tried to
visitation requires constant vigilance a
watchful eye for rule breakers
and today that effort has paid off what
seemed like a standard visit between an
inmate and his girlfriend is it cover
for something else
in the bag balloons filled with drugs
balloons this inmate is eating
[Music]
you cannot see one boy he sandwiched in
between two Doritos and act like he was
dizzy those Doritos he was pretty slick
really it was just a hunch but that's
what was going on I sent an officer over
to check the bag and there was balloons
in the bag normally when you see
balloons you've got to assume that
there's more than what you found for her
part the girlfriend is detained and
faces potential drug charges the inmate
Justin Davis is under an arrest of sorts
as well held in a special wing of the
prison since Davis swallowed most of the
evidence the prison is now waiting for
it to come out
it's called defecation watch
[Music]
the inmate is brought over here
strip-searched he's put in a room by
himself the water is turned off there is
a stainless steel pan put over the
commode an officer is assigned to watch
him 24/7
the application watch the life they own
24 hours I never leave this room they
don't give me no to the brush I can't
take a shower at night attacking
government since he thousand three
balloons he figured that I swallowed
some more so says that he got to wait
the process of it going through your
system so you know mouth once he has to
have a bowel movement the officer will
watch him if he passes something the
supervisor is notified we come over and
we go through the feces looking for the
drugs it's an unpleasant but mandatory
waiting game in the latest chapter and a
continuing life of crime
[Music]
[Applause]
whatever was poppin that's what I was
selling crack the powder to expiry
[Music]
[Applause]
on the street Justin Davis was a hustler
and has a rap sheet that includes
convictions for robbery and drug
possession
and 2008 Paul Davis was out on parole he
was found with an automatic weapon
equipped with a silencer
Davis was sentenced to a total of six
years this is the second time Davis has
been caught with drugs in just nine
months a sign that the hustler is
determined to continue the activities he
learned on the street behind bars
[Applause]
you in the prison to where anything can
be a hustle you for me because only
thing people want is something that
reminds them of the street or something
that they can't get in here money in
here is a bag of coffee goes for around
$3 there's nothing free in the
penitentiary on one thing these guys
it's making the money pay to get there
our clothes aren't from their visits
they pay someone to clean their tennis
shoes do their laundry do the dishes but
small-time hustles have a limited rate
of return the real profits lie in the
black market and contraband and drugs I
don't take pride of what I do I just
take pride in Who I am especially when
it kind of business I'm owed excellent
business person supply and demand you
feel me in prison that's how it is you
supply demand for something that I
wouldn't pay $50 for on the street you
can probably only made like 72 $100 off
of I can bring it in here and make
anywhere from 35 to 40 500 off of it who
wouldn't you don't think that's worth
the risk
[Music]
but in the prison black-market the risk
goes beyond getting caught
Davis's drugs have been confiscated he
sold these drugs already and chances are
that he has if he can't deliver the
drugs and the people that he sold it to
is going to either expect their money
back or they're going to expect her
drugs and if he can't deliver that then
potentially he has a real problem for
his own personal safety out in the yard
because they're going to click for one
way or another from stopping the flow of
drugs and contraband is a constant
challenge at Ross a daily effort to
disrupt the illegal trade
one that builds that the system takes a
hard line and builds to full-scale
shakedowns by the srt the prison special
force sorry gentleman run to a modified
clear out windows is going to take the
1a looking for major contraband that
shanks any drugs
inmates going to be stripped searched at
the door but you will go in and
shakedown you're done go put them back
in the cell and move on to the next step
put your hands and nothing you can't see
be safe
help
more time
[Music]
law both
you lose my hot would be here without
cold one spot
[Music]
shakedowns of the thighs are rare meant
to make a point break the rules and
you'll be dealt with
[Music]
I'll be going we're coming in the door
that was the area that the inmates were
yelling from one of that corner first
when Easton blue
so we want to send the message that off
the bat and we're not we're not playing
today is real
the speed is of the essence although the
inmates are unlocked out contraband can
still be his be flushed down the toilet
or thrown out the window
point master
every cell is tossed every bad stripped
every potential hiding place is probed
it's not long before the search yields
results and they're the bible's is the
stuff of their stones then both up stay
right there on our wall designed by a
hidden package is recovered inside a
white powder suspected to be cocaine
he's going to stay in there with
the potential narcotics we counted
instant of all places the Bible
[Music]
the drugs are just the beginning
homemade alcohol and tattoo equipment
are also found in the raid the pressure
forcing inmates to come clean hey I'll
probably take off here
judge this is your yes
the guilty inmates placed under prison
arrest we think we're good right now
[Music]
take a walk
shakedown send a swift and clear message
rule breakers will be punished and the
guilty may face whole time and even more
charges the contraband keeps flowing and
may keep breaking the rules and the
system keeps fighting back
[Music]
[Applause]
the time that passes at the Ross
Correctional Institution is marked by
routine lights up at 6:00 a.m. locked
down 10:45 first count rec yard workout
keep moving time for chow
keep moving two more counts and lights
out this routine changes though for
those who break the rules
then your way home
nathaniel blocker is in the hole after
assaulting an inmate
[Music]
another strike on his growing record
in here I'm I'm forced to be around
people that I don't want to be around
sometimes that it tells me to having
somebody here you know beating someone
with a bike or something like that I
mean I'm not a big guy you know I mean
so it didn't tells that I'm going to
always seem to have some problems with
these clowns all right here so I got to
make an example okay go kill it -
whatever gets down look Phil let's put
it this way I'd rather be out there
eating grasshoppers out in the woods
crime than living here I don't pass news
up there chicken man and he tried to
show off oh my god so they say that Nick
dumped
it's up another world in here I guess a
blacker has two days until his trial for
the flight and the punishment could be
severe the self-proclaimed lone wolf is
accused of weapons possession something
that could get him additional time in
the hole
I mean you're either going to defend
yourself in here man or you're not you
know when someone steps up to the
battlefield man I mean I have no choice
but to take it to the next level while
violent inmates like blacker are an
obvious challenge to the system some
rule breakers present problems of an
entirely different sort so this is the
correct venue there is no motion to
dismiss anymore
nationwide there are over 16,000
lawsuits filed by inmates last year many
are appealing their conviction or
complaining about conditions inside
ninety percent of these lawsuits are
prepared by inmates inmates like Ronald
dudas jailhouse lawyer has been around
since they opened the first institution
somebody has to help somebody I know we
just found a bunch of motions call
police go be or anything I knows now
although he isn't a real lawyer
dudas access counselor to the convicted
gentleman that was the public defender
to the incarcerated motions for relief
from judgment pursuant to civil rule 60
B everybody in here is innocent
everybody in here has a story but as you
talked to people they're not all Tony
that they're innocent but what the
attorney there's flaws
[Music]
my backgrounds in finance my client is
considered a white-collar crime 54 year
old Ronald dudas came into the system on
a 17 month sentence for theft
telecommunications fraud and forgery all
part of a mortgage scam due to stole in
excess of a million dollars from
low-income homeowners and then
confiscated their property they said
that I have a social path that was
motivated by money that if it's not my
way it's no way when I ran a company
that was strictly set up for predatory
lending practices
Dudus may have started out as a
white-collar criminal but after his
arrest he turned a corner moved toward
violence
prosecutors say Ronald dudas asked a
cellmate at the Cuyahoga County Jail to
arrange the hits
dudas orchestrated a plan to murder the
presiding judge in his case and talked
about it on the jail's tapped phone line
to call it run shut up do you understand
dudas was hit with a 135 count
indictment and a 30 year sentence she we
are going here so I'm eating ever me now
inside Judas has a vast list of clients
he helps gang members fight their cases
and prepares legal briefs for groups in
the system like the Christians separates
his church he's got a long I mean he
knows what he's talking about
you know he's I'm real I'm mostly in the
Bible and he's more low he's illegal
vehicle.well nationally the church has
been labeled as a hate group its leaders
here are serving long sentences for
violent crimes they are like all of
Judas clients a reminder of his new
reality meanwhile this guy is going to
sit here and rot in prison I used to
walk into a bar when I was younger and I
used to look around and go okay I'm the
toughest guy in y'all not to worry about
when I came to prison and I looked
around I said I have a lot of issues
I get things in my life that I think now
I'm paying for I think the things like
did get away with it came around while
dudas maybe learning to navigate a new
world his choices have been breaking the
rules again we have this weakened
frontal do das's way of jailhouse lawyer
hang is an illegal hustle behind bars
I'll write this up for you to help you
out he just put it near here writing and
in prison it's only a matter of time
before the rule breakers get punished
[Music]
that's untie if you step outside for my
wake up another shakedown at Ross the
part with the daily routine
officers here are expected to do at
least one random search each shift all
we're just kind of doing a cleaning out
of the ball drugs weapons huge all part
of the ongoing effort to root out
contraband last year we found a lot of
knives meant it was a real big year for
knives so shakedowns become way more
common at this institution
hey Watkins come here got a needle and
they're done we'll get stuck with I
found your ink so no drugs or weapons
were found in today's hunt
no matter how diligent you are watching
in the block how many officers you have
there's always something going to be
going on a lot of fathers up and about
it cannot be everywhere at all time
there's only so many of us and place to
attend to them things go on behind the
doors and that's where you know the real
thing the real issues the real fights
the real drama will never sit the Ross
Correctional Institution in southern
Ohio sits on 1,700 acres for inmates
locked inside the compound the peaceful
farmland they see outside the gates is a
bitter reminder of their sentence I
think the loss of freedom more than
anything else is the thing that you miss
the most
I don't miss the money I don't miss the
new cars the maid service that I don't
miss any of that almost the big houses
the vacations I miss doing what I want
to do
now Ronald dudas will be doing even less
a routine search of his room turned up a
stash of contraband you're holding the
under investigation for legal work that
they say they found in myself
barely you're not allowed to have
somebody else's bed board on your purses
or in your cellar in your possession
it's a hard and fast rule of the
institution and made property whether
it's food clothing our letters is
private everything I wrote with the arms
up behind easy real quick they turned
back around well for a bill for breaking
the rules Judas is headed to the hole
then to prison court to face his charges
and in the next few days the jailhouse
lawyer will stand in his own defense
Ronny what's up
[Music]
you want tell him bro so I know what was
that what you be quiet
[Music]
in inmate Health Services security
control officers are still keeping watch
over Justin Davis he was caught
swallowing balloons filled with
marijuana and visitation so for the past
36 hours he's been on defecation watch
passing over evidence to the prison they
recovered for all loving the next day
they got to and a couple hours later
they got one another lieutenant the
other day got 10 off something I think
so far a total of 21 balloons has been
recovered hey Davis put all your stuff
in here your bed linen also leave the
cups today the vigil comes to an end a
little under half an ounce of pot
recovered it's time for Davis to head to
the hole isolation door
[Music]
he's all yours
he's going down 112 I don't know how
long you'll be here that's between you
and Baker the investigator well it's
time you got left probably expect hope
[Music]
Davis took the risk broke the rules and
will sit in isolation for months he
faces further restrictions if he goes to
max
the kind of hard time that awaits Justin
Davis is having an impact on Buster
Johnson he's entering his sixth week in
segregation for assaulting an officer
one of the most serious crimes in prison
Johnson has been locked down 23 hours a
day
[Music]
he's like me to hear you say most out by
an orthotic attended or smaller ear
didn't we night cracks and his father
cracker their hearing guys I wondered so
you let hair out there no today
Johnson's getting some air but not a
break he's headed to a security
classification review
[Applause]
hey Don Johnson the hearing that could
result in being sent to a tougher prison
to maximum security on your security
view the fighting is a real infection
board you score two points because
within the last year you were found
guilty you do have three points based on
the fact that the warden approved your
placement in elsi that's three points
against you since you have demonstrated
a physically assault and/or predatory
behavior resulting in physical harm to
any person and the nature of your
behavior presents a threat to the
overall security and orderly operation
of the institution this behavior khattak
was upon Johnson's fate is all but
sealed kill right out to a max prison
whereas actions will determine whether
or not he'll return to a place like Ross
[Music]
the Johnson the system has reeled in the
rule breakers and now it is dealing with
them all that remains are the trials the
verdicts and the punishments
[Music]
and the segregation unit at Ross
Correctional Institution Ronald dudas is
biding his time awaiting his trial on
charges of possession possession of
another inmates legal papers
I don't but even locked in the hole
dudas is continuing his legal work and
found a new client nathaniel blocker
you're basically saying that the Court
of Common Pleas lacks complete
subject-matter jurisdiction over you the
individual no no over me he would be
over you the human being the lone wolf
has landed with the jailhouse lawyer and
blacker is sharing his strategy for
defending himself in today's prison
trial a defense that goes well beyond
the charges for fighting with what he is
arguing is basically in layman's terms
on that a sovereign state I didn't sign
the Declaration of Independence I can't
be held liable for crimes that were
given to a guy with a social security
number because I never authorized all
those numbers they were given to me by
an entity from the state so the
statutory was something that was created
here voted on no no no it was just
somebody drew this up probably the most
extreme extremist I've ever met in
prison it's going on
I believe he believes that he's going to
win he's a hundred percent correct that
everything he's doing at Ross after
inmates are reeled in for breaking the
rules they're issued a rule violation
ticket rule 39 drug possession in May -
how do you explain to the rule 39 not
guilty rule 1920 in my barber you appear
before the rules infraction birthday
charge for the rule 19 fighting you play
guilty to that charge there are all
charges in the prison penal code
charge is brought into a courtroom of
sorts it's called the rules infraction
board are IB and the presiding officer
is lieutenant Ginetta turner the Riv is
similar to a criminal court and mates
get to present evidence call witnesses
give testimony can you give me your full
name and number for the record please
John Silver's four to five three Anthony
Connelly 566 I'm James Edward Brandi
five seven nine three one six if they
can't follow the rules inside the prison
they're not going to follow the rules
when they get out of prison and bucking
the system could mean more time when I
fight I fight this fight when you are
baby out the majority of the time what I
really want from the Amaze is a truth
the truth is the truth and I just don't
like lie Nathaniel blocker is making his
ninth trip to the rules infraction board
the prison Court
he's a regular that faces time in the
hole for assaulting another inmate
cooperation though could make the
hearing go more smoothly hey ma blacker
can give me your full name and number
for the record please
ma'am I mean I've never been issued one
but right from the start
blogger makes this stance clear what's
your name my name is Nathaniel called I
multiply offend you wish to enter a plea
on the rule 36 possession of a weapon
the court has no jurisdiction Ju RI and
I got it wait a hospital it's a good I
don't follow orders
at least not tap well I was just
involved in an altercation and the
argument was over or the district
disagreement was over he had something
to sell but I just believe he should
have had in the cell what did he have in
the cell I'm not at liberty to say okay
all right you're going to stand in front
of that wall facing the wall i'ma call
sergeant Spencer and you're not allowed
to speak directly to him any questions
you have for him you relate to me I will
relay them to him if I feel that they
are appropriate questions okay inmate
black or in the horse we're upstairs in
the top range fighting we ran up to the
top range at that time I passed
searching and found his right front
pocket a medal sitting based on what
your soul of this item that came out of
his pocket do you consider it to be a
weapon like there's be a desert okay
thank you they're trying to say I had at
night Friday if I had a knife believe me
I was killed that dude I stack would you
like to make a statement
well I mean I don't understand what he's
talking about he removed
a knife from my pocket I mean I don't we
live by different codes all and what
people our society do I guess I get
attacked or something what am I supposed
to do my blocker is anything else you
want to add there was nothing that was
done to investigate this this guy
removes this thing from my pocket or
whatever who says that it's a deadly
weapon however he's not confident to
testify to that okay is he a forensic
pathologist or something okay all right
so what's your claim is that he did not
take this on your pocket
well I mean he he may have taken
something out of my pocket but they were
booking a weapon all right so what was
it I have no idea
then how do you know he took something
out your pocket the thing that he took
out my part was a peg and I snagged from
the damn cell a that I had right but
it's nothing it was nothing that you
could harm anyone with I just didn't
want him to have it in the cell okay so
you're saying that you took it away
that's what we were fighting about well
why don't you just tell me that instead
making me go through this whole little
circle why don't you just tell me that
that was the simplest thing to do
instead of making this a circus
Blacker's defense falls apart and the
verdict is easy guilty
[Music]
it's another 15 days in the hole another
mark on the record of an inmate -
continues to buck the system I don't
like their system I don't believe that
it's fair I don't believe it it's just
I'd in the world I strive for greatness
you know I mean who is that robert e lee
said something about you know sometimes
act that contrary to what you know the
common mold is
[Music]
in the segregation unit at Ross
Correctional Institution the judgment
day has come for rumbled Judas he's up
on charges of possession not of drugs or
11 he had another inmates Case Files in
his lockbox and the jailhouse lawyer is
preparing his defense I just got to try
to find a way to convince the people at
the Riv board that this wasn't done with
intent there's a thing that they give
you here it's a manual it's called an
inmate handbook in this inmate handbook
it has basically what you can can't do
your hands up the book is the penal code
for the prison rules of conduct
institutional policies procedures for
grievances all spelled out and something
every inmate should know especially a
self-proclaimed advocate like dudas well
I fight to the limit on everything
absolutely because I don't believe I did
anything wrong I believe everything I
did was by their handbook and I have
their handbook here they'll take in with
me to prove
inmate here to see up here for the rules
infraction board a charged with rule 21
this millionths of a direct order a rule
48 stealing or embezzlement of property
of a rule 50 possession of the property
of another a rule 49 51 16 54 55 this is
your opportunity just explain what
happened tell me what happened the
easiest thing that the same in is if I
may be so bold I go to a law library I
think everybody needs to - she knows I'm
always up there and I do help inmates
they do you have authorization to do so
yes ma'am this security does allow me up
there Tex I mean you have written
authorization from the warden no ma'am
okay hi I need to have that yes yes
it's the most basic oversight a lethal
blow to his defense I would say the
first 30 seconds I thought I was
definitely being ready to go to town
once she said you failed to do this
anything that I would argue past that
point would be ludicrous on my part
because there was no way I was going to
win I need you to research to find out
what the proper procedures for assisting
other inmates with their legal work this
will never happen we're not permitted to
have or possess any other mas legal work
unless it relates to your case and you
can't do that okay because you are not a
lawyer and you are not prevent from it
as a practice the wall while you're
incarcerated in our institution dudas
versus Ross Correctional Institution is
an open-and-shut case the Palin's I
found you guilty all the charges and
leaves that you did have the sentence 10
days in the hole
give it in my handbook did you get it in
the handbook when you got earth beyond
surely I do reader you have the Iranian
whisper here you just read what is the
part here here in my place every day
[Music]
being a thorn in the side the system is
pleasurable to me I'm probably going to
do other RIT bits in the hole for doing
legal work because I will not stop
helping people it's my way to get back
to the system it's my way of saying you
know what screw you you guys did this to
me I don't belong in here so I'm gonna
help everybody I can to get home
Prison is all about rules rules that
govern daily life rules that keep the
peace rules that are regularly broken by
inmates pushing the limits of the system
[Music]
some people was addicted to buying and
user drugs and certain people was
addicted to the money that's coming from
the drugs and photon sand and me that's
one of my addictions I'm addicted to
being the one cuz of hydrogen Justin
Davis now has a six-month sentence for
possession and drug smuggling six months
until he's back in general population
once again we had validation don't come
from being like that it comes from
yourself if you won't want to change or
you ain't gonna want to change you kill
me my buddy stay here be beating myself
up feeling guilty and if I would got
caught I would have been hero something
[Music]
for attacking an officer Buster Johnson
faces formal assault charges that could
lead to more time time he won't be
spending at Ross
Johnson is a security risk here and the
rules require the administration
transfer him to a maximum facility known
as lucasville now back to Lucas view
there's real and there's a really joint
ain't no good ain't no kitty candle mall
behind bars every crime as a reason and
it turns out a tougher prison is just
what the old-school and they wanted old
ones are real cameras of men and dummy
joint army
back at home
[Music]
cellmark philosopher so
the way that I do my time is this I
don't mess with people so I don't expect
we mess to it and someone steps up to
the plate I'm swinging but for a home
run right flat out trying to kill her
Nathaniel blockers history of violence
is catching up with him
today he's headed to court to face
criminal charges for stabbing another
inmate three years ago
charges that cadet years unto his
sentence on scared honestly I'm scared
to go back into society and hear it
everything's given to you food clothing
everything there it's got to fend for
yourself and I don't know how to do that
there's no common programs out there to
help me because I hate nothing just
going to have to go out there try to do
this on my own and for the scary
it may be the beginning of the end for
the army of one another step deeper into
the world of prison the world that is
becoming the only one you might ever
know